Dear CSCI 7000-025 student,

I am Prof Danny Dig, and I am excited to teach the class on Pervasive
Personalized Intelligence for IoT Systems.
It was great to see you yesterday in class and interact with you.

We are doing a few things differently from other classes that you took
in the past, so please pay attention to the instructions for this first
week of class. Also notice that in order to be enrolled and be successful
in this class, you need to have a good foundation of computer science. 
The prerequisites are the core undergrad CS classes or a solid experience
of industrial software engineering. If you are not sure about any of
these, please come and speak with me after the class.

ABOUT THE COURSE

The purpose of this research course is to expose students to seminal
topics and recent trends in the field of IoT.

A new era in computing is emerging, marked by the digitalization and
connection of many aspects of the physical world. Coupled with advances
in AI, highly-connected computing sparks a technological revolution
rivaling the industrial revolution in breadth of impact. The next big
growth in IoT systems will come from pushing pervasive personalized
intelligence to the edge of the network, where latency is critical, and
mobility, privacy, and context awareness are essential qualities of the
application. This will enable an entirely new class of applications by
generating business intelligence that is predictive instead of reactive,
thus making processes more efficient and saving time, energy, and money.

In this highly interactive class we will be investigating (i) innovative
future use of IoT software systems and (ii) the research technical
thrusts that enable the exciting applications of the future. Our
exploration will consist of in-class discussions of the literature and
team projects that encourage risk taking.

The course will offer an opportunity for students to pursue
research-oriented or novel industrial term projects in small teams (2-3
students). Students may pursue any project of their choosing that
explores the intersection of IoT systems with one of the following
thrusts: ML/AI, SE, PL, Security/Privacy, Human Factors.

COURSE OBJECTIVES
- expand student's knowledge more broadly about IoT research & practice
- develop critical thinking abilities by being able to assess the quality
of published research and pose new research questions
- practice giving scientific presentations and teaching others
- engage in active learning activities in class, such as research discussions
- practice developing a research or novel-industrial project through all
its stages: formulating a research problem, posing research questions,
gathering related work, designing a solution, evaluating the solution
empirically, writing a research paper have fun learning


Some logistics for the first week of class. The first class
was yesterday on Mon, Jan 13, 16:00-17:15, in ECCR 151.
Next we will meet this Wed, Jab 15, at the same time and location as yesterday.

Here are some items for you to accomplish right after the first
class:

1) Read course syllabus (and other info) on the class webpage.
Our course webpage contains a wealth of information, including how to
communicate with the staff and other colleagues (e.g., through Piazza),
readings schedule for the first meetings, etc:
https://danny.cs.colorado.edu/courses/csci7000-025_S20/

2) Since we will read and discuss several research papers in this class
(we will read and conduct research on IoT), read this excellent resource on 
how to Read an Engineering Research paper (by William Griswold):
http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~wgg/CSE210/howtoread.html

3) Sign up on Piazza:
https://piazza.com/colorado/spring2020/csci7000025

After this email, all the communication will be on Piazza.

Also, if you have not already signed up for our class, please do this
soon as this helps us and the administrators with the class logistics.

Looking forward to seeing you in class this Wed.


Danny Dig
---
Associate Professor, CS at University of Colorado,
Adjunct Professor, CS Department, University of Illinois, OSU
http://danny.cs.colorado.edu

Executive Director, Coach, Teacher and Speaker with The John Maxwell Team

Executive Director and Founder, Center on Pervasive Personalized Intelligence (PPI)
http://ppicenter.org

"The two most important days in your life are the day you are born and the day you discover why" -- Mark Twain