I am Prof Danny Dig, and I'll be teaching CSCI 4448/5448. I want to personally
welcome you to OO Analysis and Design and to wish you a Happy New Year!

I am excited to teach this class. We be doing a few things differently
from other classes to make our class more interactive and participatory. You
will have the opportunity to continuously share your opinions in class
through iClicker and get instant feedback. You will be engaged in an
active learning environment where you learn from many sources, including
your peers in class. I will also interview in class (through Zoom) some of 
the most famous industry leaders, book authors, and alumni.

Initially, we will be developing a project in Java and Intellij IDEA using Test Driven 
Development and eXtreme Programming. Afterwards, in the second half of the class you will
have your opportunity to select a variety of technologies. You are expected to follow an 
organized software development process and ultimately deliver a 
polished product with emphasis on good design, clean code, 
sufficient testing, and proper documentation.

Some logistics for the first week of class. The first class
is on Fri, Jan 15th, 15:00-15:50 Mountain Time.

- the live lecture will be on Zoom. You are encouraged to attend even if
you are actually registered for the asynchronous section of the class. The Zoom
link is set up so that you need to use your colorado.edu credentials:
https://cuboulder.zoom.us/j/96158358156

- we will be using iClickers starting with the first day of class so
make sure that you set up your clicker account before class so that you can 
respond to polls: https://danny.cs.colorado.edu/courses/OOAD_Sp21/clicker.html

- the first homework is due very soon, on Fri, Jan 22nd.
For this homework you will submit a plan for the software project, but 
also get introduced to Java, Object-Oriented Programming, and Intellij IDEA. We
will split you in pairs, though you can still change your partner. If you
already have a partner that you worked with in the past, please let the TA, 
Dwight Browne (Dwight.Browne@colorado.edu) know by Sunday, Jan 17th. 
Send him an email entitled "OOAD HW1 pairs" and list the CU IDs of the two people 
in the pair. Anybody whom we have not heard from we will assign randomly into 
pairs on Tue, Jan 19th. More info about this homework will be available 
on our course webpage.

Our course webpage contains a wealth of information, including how to
communicate with the staff (that is, through Piazza), class schedule,
textbooks, resources on clicker, etc. The webpage will contain
more information by the end of the week (though I am sending the
link now): https://danny.cs.colorado.edu/courses/OOAD_Sp21


Looking forward to meeting you in class or on Piazza,
Prof Danny Dig
---
Associate Professor, CS Department at University of Colorado,
Adjunct Professor, CS Department, University of Illinois, OSU
http://danny.cs.colorado.edu

Executive Director and Founder, Center on Pervasive Personalized Intelligence (PPI)
http://ppicenter.org