Dear grad students in the course on Building Software with Agentic Components,

Happy New Semester! I hope that your first week of classes ended well
and you are looking forward to the second week of the semester (and the
first session of our class).

I am Prof Danny Dig, and I am excited to teach the class on Building AI
Software Agents (CSCI 7000-005). As I am living out of state, I am
flying to CU specifically to meet you and I am looking forward to seeing
you this Mon (Jan 12 at 5:05pm) in ECES 114 for our first day of class.
The majority of the classes going forward will be on Zoom --
https://cuboulder.zoom.us/j/93001879338 (you need to authenticate with
your colorado.edu credentials). For this very first class on Mon, Jan
12th at 5:05pm I invite you to connect and meet in person. 

We are doing a few things differently from other classes that you took
in the past, so please pay attention to the instructions for this first
week of class. Please notice that in order to be enrolled and be
successful in this class, you need to have a good foundation of Software
Engineering, as demonstrated by undergrad courses at CU. This is NOT an
introductory grad course to Software Engineering, for those students we
recommend other grad courses such as Foundations of Software Engineering
(CSCI 5828). This course assumes you are a competent software engineer
already -- we are looking into how you can augment your current skills
to include using and building GenAI-powered Agents. If you are not sure
about any of these, please  speak with me after the class.


ABOUT THE COURSE

The purpose of this research course is to expose students to seminal
topics and recent trends in the field of GenAI-powered Software Agents.

This graduate-level course explores the rapidly emerging paradigm of
building software systems with agentic components -— autonomous,
reasoning, and goal-directed software entities that can perceive
context, collaborate, and take initiative. The course has two central
goals: (i) to critically read and discuss state-of-the-art research
papers on AI agents, multi-agent collaboration, and agentic AI in
software engineering, and (ii) to gain practical experience designing,
implementing, and evaluating an agentic system.

In this highly interactive, seminar-style class, students will engage in
instructor-guided discussions, student-led paper presentations, and
hands-on labs exploring current agent frameworks and architectures. The
course will culminate in a team-based term project—either
research-oriented or prototype-driven—that demonstrates creativity,
technical rigor, and a deep understanding of how agentic components can
transform modern software systems.

Our exploration consists of in-class discussions of the cutting-edge
research literature, interactions with industry thought leaders, and
team projects that encourage risk taking.

The course offers an opportunity for students to pursue
research-oriented or novel industrial term projects in small teams (3-4
students). Students may pursue any project of their choosing that
explores building software systems powered by Agentic components.

The course offers several opportunities to learn from the movers and
shakers in Agentic AI from industry and academic research labs.


COURSE OBJECTIVES

- expand student's knowledge more broadly about AI Agents research
& practice through reading research papers and industry surveys
- develop critical thinking abilities by being able to assess the quality
of published research and pose new research questions

- practice giving scientific presentations and teaching others
- engage in active learning activities in class, such as student-guided
discussions on research and applications of agentic AI

- practice developing a research or novel-industrial software
development project through all its stages: formulating a research
problem, posing research questions, gathering related work, designing a
solution, evaluating the solution empirically, writing a research paper

- practice engaging in dialogue with thought leaders in agentic AI.

- have fun learning


Some logistics for the first week of class. The first class
will be held this Mon, Jan 12 from 5:05-6:20pm in ECES 114.

The majority of the subsequent classes will be held on Zoom 
(VIP: you need to login with your CU Boulder credentials on Zoom):
https://cuboulder.zoom.us/j/93001879338

Here are some items for you to accomplish right after the first
class:

1) Read course syllabus (and other info) on the class webpage. Our
course webpage contains a wealth of information, including how to
communicate with the staff and other colleagues (e.g., through Piazza),
readings schedule for the first meetings, etc:
https://danny.cs.colorado.edu/courses/csci7000-005_Sp26/index.html

2) Since we will read and discuss several research papers in this class
(we will read and conduct research and novel development using GenAI),
read this excellent resource on how to Read an Engineering Research
paper (by William Griswold):
http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~wgg/CSE210/howtoread.html

3) Sign up on Piazza:
https://piazza.com/colorado/spring2026/csci7000005

After this email, all the communication will be on Piazza.

Looking forward to seeing you in class this Mon.


Danny Dig
---
Associate Professor, CS at University of Colorado,
Adjunct Professor, CS Department, University of Illinois, OSU
http://danny.cs.colorado.edu

Executive Director, Coach, Teacher and Speaker with The John Maxwell Team

Executive Director and Founder, Center on Pervasive Personalized Intelligence (PPI)
http://ppicenter.org

"The two most important days in your life are the day you are born and
the day you discover why" -- Mark Twain