Dear grad students in GenAI-powered Software Engineering course,

I am Prof Danny Dig, and I am excited to teach the class on
GenAI-powered Software Engineering (CSCI 7000-011). As I am living out
of state, I am flying now to CU specifically to meet you and I am
looking forward to seeing you this Thu (Aug 21st at 2pm) in Discovery
Learning Center (DLC) 1B70 for our first day of class. The majority of
the classes going forward will be on Zoom --
https://cuboulder.zoom.us/j/98033152097 (you need to authenticate with
your colorado.edu credentials). For this very first class on Thu, Aug
21st at 2pm I invite you to connect and meet in person. 

We are doing a few things differently from other classes that you took
in the past, so please pay attention to the instructions for this first
week of class. Please notice that in order to be enrolled and be
successful in this class, you need to have a good foundation of Software
Engineering, as demonstrated by undergrad courses at CU. This is NOT an
introductory grad course to Software Engineering, for those students we
recommend other grad courses such as Foundations of Software Engineering
(CSCI 5828). This course assumes you are a competent software engineer
already -- we are looking into how you can augment your current skills
to include GenAI supported workflows. If you are not sure about any of
these, please  speak with me after the class.


ABOUT THE COURSE
The purpose of this research course is to expose students to seminal
topics and recent trends in the field of GenAI for Software Engineering.

Software development is undergoing a profound transformation as GenAI
becomes increasingly integrated into development practices. This brand
new course ensures that our students are not only aware of these
developments but are also prepared to lead in this new era. In this
class, students (i) understand the capabilities and limitations of GenAI
systems deployed in production or in research; (ii) Learn to critically
assess AI-assisted development workflows; (iii) Gain hands-on experience
using GenAI in tasks such as testing, debugging, code synthesis, and
refactoring.

In this highly interactive, Seminar-style class featuring
Instructor-guided exploration and student-led discussions, we will be
investigating (i) innovative use of GenAI in software engineering
processes and tasks (compelling applications) and (ii) the research
technical thrusts that enable the exciting applications of the future.
Our exploration will consist of in-class discussions of the cutting-edge
research literature, interactions with industry thought leaders, and
team projects that encourage risk taking.

The course will offer an opportunity for students to pursue
research-oriented or novel industrial term projects in small teams (3-4
students). Students may pursue any project of their choosing that
explores the intersection of GenAI with processes and tools used in
Software Engineering.

The course will offer several opportunities for learning from the
movers and shakers in GenAI from industry and academic research labs.



COURSE OBJECTIVES

- expand student's knowledge more broadly about GenAI-based Software Engineering research & practice through reading research papers and industry surveys
- develop critical thinking abilities by being able to assess the quality of published research and pose new research questions
- practice giving scientific presentations and teaching others
- engage in active learning activities in class, such as student-guided discussions on research and applications for GenAI in Software Engineering
- practice developing a research or novel-industrial software development project through all its stages: formulating a research problem, posing research questions, gathering related work, designing a solution, evaluating the solution empirically, writing a research paper
- practice engaging in dialogue with thought leaders in GenAI Software Engineering.
- have fun learning


Some logistics for the first week of class. The first class
will be held this Thu, Aug 21 from 2-3:15pm in Discovery
Learning Center (DLC) 1B70.

The majority of the subsequent classes will be held on Zoom 
(VIP: you need to login with your CU Boulder credentials on Zoom):
https://cuboulder.zoom.us/j/98033152097

Here are some items for you to accomplish right after the first
class:

1) Read course syllabus (and other info) on the class webpage.
Our course webpage contains a wealth of information, including how to
communicate with the staff and other colleagues (e.g., through Piazza),
readings schedule for the first meetings, etc:
https://danny.cs.colorado.edu/courses/csci7000-011_F25/index.html

2) Since we will read and discuss several research papers in this class
(we will read and conduct research and novel development using GenAI), read this 
excellent resource on how to Read an Engineering Research paper (by William Griswold):
http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~wgg/CSE210/howtoread.html

3) Sign up on Piazza:
https://piazza.com/colorado/fall2025/csci7000011
After this email, all the communication will be on Piazza.


Looking forward to seeing you in class this Thu.


Danny Dig
---
Associate Professor, CS at University of Colorado,
Adjunct Professor, CS Department, University of Illinois, OSU
http://danny.cs.colorado.edu

Executive Director, Coach, Teacher and Speaker with The John Maxwell Team

Executive Director and Founder, Center on Pervasive Personalized Intelligence (PPI)
http://ppicenter.org

"The two most important days in your life are the day you are born and the day you discover why" -- Mark Twain